README.md, before:

This is a [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) project bootstrapped with [`create-next-app`](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/tree/canary/packages/create-next-app).

## Getting Started

First, run the development server:

```bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev
# or
pnpm dev
# or
bun dev
```

Open [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000) with your browser to see the result.

You can start editing the page by modifying `app/page.tsx`. The page auto-updates as you edit the file.

This project uses [`next/font`](https://nextjs.org/docs/basic-features/font-optimization) to automatically optimize and load Inter, a custom Google Font.

## Learn More

To learn more about Next.js, take a look at the following resources:

- [Next.js Documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs) - learn about Next.js features and API.
- [Learn Next.js](https://nextjs.org/learn) - an interactive Next.js tutorial.

You can check out [the Next.js GitHub repository](https://github.com/vercel/next.js/) - your feedback and contributions are welcome!

## Deploy on Vercel

The easiest way to deploy your Next.js app is to use the [Vercel Platform](https://vercel.com/new?utm_medium=default-template&filter=next.js&utm_source=create-next-app&utm_campaign=create-next-app-readme) from the creators of Next.js.

Check out our [Next.js deployment documentation](https://nextjs.org/docs/deployment) for more details.

Commit message:

[NEW] add docs till client protection

README.md, after:

# Auth.js v5 (Next Auth v5) Starter with Google and Credentials (username & password) Providers

## Getting Started

- The file [route.ts](src/app/api/auth/[...nextauth]/route.ts) is the main entry point for the NextAuth.js API routes.
- The [auth.ts](auth.ts) file in the root of the app handles the authentication logic.

## Configuration

- The [auth.ts](auth.ts) file contains the configuration for the authentication providers.
- The demo account for this application is `admin` and `root`.
- The google credentials examples are in the [.env.example](.env.example) file. suffixed as `AUTH_<provider_name>_<ID|SECRET>`.
- Also need to pass a Auth secret, which is used to sign the JWT token. This is passed as `AUTH_SECRET` as illustrated in the [.env.example](.env.example) file.
- You can generate a secret using the command `openssl rand -base64 32` and then pass it as the value for `AUTH_SECRET` in the `.env.local` file.
- The middleware for the application is inside the src and in the same level as app directory [middleware.ts](src/middleware.ts).

## Client Protected Routes

- To leverage client side authentication and protect routes, the `useSession` hook from `next-auth/react` is used in the client [page.tsx](src/app/client-page/page.tsx).
- Extract `data` as `session` from the `useSession` hook and use it to protect routes.
- session contains the user information and the token.
- The `useSession` hook is used to protect the client side routes and it essentially consumes the SessionProvider context.
- The `SessionProvider` is used to provide the session to the client side routes, it is initialised as a HOC in the [providers.tsx](src/app/providers.tsx) file.
- Since the SessionProvider is a context provider, it essestially has to be a client component, and hence the "use client" directive at the top of the file.
- This does not mean all the components passed inside it becomes client side, it just means that the context is available to the client side components, server side components can still be passed inside it.
